Okay.
So let's continue our discussion from the previous lesson on type literals and more specifically apply
that idea to objects.
So objects are very interesting in JavaScript and in TypeScript and they can often be a point of confusion.
So here I have the code from a couple lessons ago where we are assigning an object to a concept called
plumber.
So what the constant keyword means is that we cannot reassign plumber to be any other value, right?
So in other words, we can't take plumber and reassign it to be something else, like an array, right?
Or a brand new object or even an object with name properties, skill properties, likes mushroom properties,
etc..
The point is the association between the plumber name in our program must stay the same.
It must always reference this object right here.
That cannot change.
We can never reassign plumber to be anything else.
And that is true.
Whenever we use the keyword with any kind of data type, whether it be in JavaScript object or for example,
a number or a string.
However, that does not change the fact that our plumber object is mutable.
In other words, the properties we have on the plumber object, they can change.
So what that means is, even though we can't reassign plumber, we're still able to, for example,
take plumber, take its name, property, and reassign it to something else like warrior.
And the reason is because the plumber constant must reference the same object.
That is true, but the internals of that object can still change.
The plumber name must always reference the object, but the name property on that same object is totally
mutable.
It's totally capable of changing, as evidenced right here.
All right.
So no matter whether we use this syntax right here or we let TypeScript infer the object type we have
and all the properties and types.
This kind of syntax is still valid as a syntax like this.
Plumber likes mushrooms.
Set to false.
That's totally valid because we have likes mushrooms property.
TypeScript verifies that.
It verifies that likes mushrooms must be a boolean and thus false is still a boolean.
So we are totally able to change that.
Now here's where I'm going to introduce something very interesting.
What happens if I change like mushrooms type annotation here from being a boolean to more specifically
being true?
Right.
The point is, I'm not assigning a value of true technically.
Instead, what I'm telling TypeScript is likes mushrooms is going to be a property on this object.
That must always be true.
All right.
So that's the difference between having Boolean here, which can be either true or false.
In comparison, this syntax tells TypeScript that this must always be true.
So even in the initial object declaration, if I try to set this to false, we're going to get a problem
because TypeScript is going to tell us the type false is not assignable to the type true.
It's beyond just a boolean.
It's a more specific type of boolean, which is true.
So this must always be true.
And since we've given the name property and the scale property, a string type, that means we're able
to change plumber's name property and plumber skill property.
There's nothing wrong with that.
However, likes mushrooms must always stay true and thus this is going to cause an error because it's
going to tell us, hey, type false is not assignable to type true.
All right.
So that's how.
More specific, more precise, more restricting, perhaps we can get with our types whenever we do explicit
declarations.
If we were to leave this out, TypeScript would assume or infer that likes mushrooms is a boolean.
Using an explicit declaration, we can be a little bit more granular and say, Hey, likes mushrooms.
It's not just a boolean, it's more specifically a type of true.
It's always going to be true.
As this program runs, you should never be allowed to change it.
All right.
So that could be one of the advantages to explicitly writing out the type rather than allowing TypeScript
to infer it.
We can be a little bit more specific, a little bit more precise whenever the typescript inference does
not fit what we're looking for.
All right.
So once again, to summarize, the plumber constant stays the same so we can not reassign the plumber
name to any other object or anything else in our program, even if that object fits this criteria.
Because using the cons keyword, we have permanently associated this name in our program with this object
and specifically this object.
However, just because that association is constant doesn't mean the object's individual properties
have to be constant.
We are still able to change the name and scale properties on this exact plumber object.
The cons must always reference.
All right, so the reference is constant, but the properties themselves are not constant.
They are mutable, as is assuming that we give them the appropriate types right here.
Here we specifically made likes mushrooms immutable.
We said that it must always be true.
All right.
So that's how we can specifically target individual object properties and declare that they must always
be something specific beyond just a general type like string number or boy.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in next one.